Now that we have the hash values of a block,
we can start to further explore blocks on the blockchain.
In this video, we'll cover three commands you
can use to explore blocks in the debug console.
The commands we'll cover are getblock, getblockheader and generate.
These commands will be extremely useful to help you
access data about specific blocks on the blockchain.
To start, let's look at getblock.
Getblock returns details of block information,
the amount of detail returned can vary depending on the level you specify.
This allows you to pull any of these details
into applications you might create in the future.
Using help, you can inspect the details of this command.
What we need to provide is a block hash.
Then we can specify whether we want a string of data,
an object with block information,
or the same object along with each transaction in the block.
This is specified using 0, 1 or 2.
Let's try running this command.
First, we need to get a block hash.
We can do that by running getblockhash and choosing a block number.
I'll pick 100.
Putting this hash into the getblock command,
we get details like the hash,
confirmations, size, and much more.
Running this command and selecting 2,
we'll see that the transaction has been broken out into even more detail.
We now also have information like the hash, version and size.
This is a lot of information,
so feel free to pause the video and take time to inspect the data it has returned.
Next, we'll cover getblockheader.
getblockheader returns information about the header of a block, just like it says.
This allows you to call more specific information in cases where you
don't need access to all the block details you get from getblock.
Running this using help,
you'll see that this returns all the details of the block,
but doesn't include transaction information like before.
I'll run this in my debug console,
but first I need to get a block hash again.
I'll use getblockhash and choose block 19,
because it's my favorite number.
I now have a hash I can use to put in to getblockheader.
Next, I'll run getblockheader and paste the hash from black 19 into the command.
Now you can see the details of the header for this block,
but don't have access to the transaction information.
Finally, let's go over the generate command.
Generate allows you to immediately mind
the specified number of blocks to an address in the wallet.
This is a way to create blocks that you can then interact with on the blockchain.
This is extremely helpful for
testing applications when you want more control over your environment.
This command is actually only really useful on the regnet.
The regnet allows you to create blocks instantly since there is
no network that needs to verify any of these transactions.
I'll switch over to the regnet now.
Remember, to do this,
type regtest = 1 into your bitcoin.config file.
Then reload the software.
Using the help function,
you'll see that it allows you to specify a number of blocks to generate.
Once I do, the console will instantly create this number of blocks on the regnet.
Let's try it. I'll generate 100 blocks.
What it returns is the hash for each of these blocks.
I can now explore and work with these blocks
just like any other that we've seen previously.
Pick one of these values and run
the command getblock to see more details of any block you'd like.
All right, so there's a few commands you can use to
get started exploring blocks with the debug console.
We covered getblock, getblockheader and generate.
If you like, continue playing around with these commands to
create and inspect your own blocks using the debug console.
Before moving on, remember to switch back to the test network.
Throughout the rest of the lesson,
we'll continue going over more of the commands available to you.